Title: Richard Simmons shares skin cancer diagnosis a day after worrying fans with 'I'm dying' post

Full Article: 
Richard Simmons shared an emotional post Tuesday about the moment he was
diagnosed with skin cancer, a concerning update that followed an apology for
scaring fans with a post saying he was dying.

The fitness personality said he noticed a blemish under his eye in the mirror
one day and decided to speak with a dermatologist after it wouldn’t clear up.
The doctor scraped the area and examined the cells under a microscope, Simmons
said.

"He comes back about 20 minutes later and says the C word. You have cancer,"
Simmons wrote. "I asked him what kind of cancer and he said. Basel Cell
Carcinoma. I told him to stop calling me dirty names. He laughed."

Basal cell carcinoma is a form of skin cancer that appears most often on areas
of the skin that are exposed to the sun, according to the Mayo Clinic. It's
most often treated by removing all of the cancerous cells, and it rarely
metastasizes, or spreads.

Simmons said he went to a "cancer doctor," Dr. Ralph A. Massey, who informed
him he would need a procedure that would burn his skin to remove the cancer
cells.

"There was no numbing it just had to be done with a small instrument," Simmons
wrote. "As he started burning my skin a tear dropped down my cheek. You can’t
cry during this and he wiped my tear."

It lasted about 30 minutes, he said, but he had to go back again because not
all of the cells had been removed. Simmons described the second procedure as
more painful — "deeper," he wrote.

![Richard Simmons ](https://media-
cldnry.s-nbcnews.com/image/upload/t_fit-760w,f_auto,q_auto:best/rockcms/2024-03/240320-Richard-
Simmons-ew-1123a-00ff3e.jpg)Richard Simmons attends 2013 LA Gay Pride Festival
on June 9, 2013 in West Hollywood, Calif.Rodrigo Vaz / Getty Images file

Simmons posted a follow-up Wednesday that the issue was resolved after a third
procedure and that he doesn’t even have a scar. He went on to say that his
cancer experience is "nothing" compared to stories of his own friends.

"I know some of you reading this have had cancer or have known someone in your
life who has had cancer," he wrote Wednesday. "Promise me you will see your
doctor and get a complete check up."

His posts don’t provide details about when it occurred. Representatives for
Simmons didn’t immediately respond to a request for additional details.

Simmons' skin cancer reveal came just a day after he told fans that he "had
some news" and that he was dying.

"Oh I can see your faces now. The truth is we all are dying," he wrote at the
time. "Every day we live we are getting closer to our death."

He later apologized to fans for upsetting them with the post.

"I am not dying," he clarified. "It was a message about saying how we should
embrace every day that we have. Sorry for this confusion."

